# Fusion Inventory Plugin - 0.83+2.0

The Fusion Inventory Plugin is both integrated with [[GLPI]] via *mass actions! and via the Plugin interface. The Plugin Interface is used most.

[[!img deploy/FusionInventoryMain.png]]

1.  Task Management is available via the FusionInventory dropdown. This is mostly used to deploy pachages, but can be used
    for other tasks.
2.  The Deploy dropdown is used to create deployable packages.

# FusionInventory Dropdown

## Agents Management

This is used to quickly check the status of a FusionInventory agent:

-   If it's reporting in
-   If [[GLPI]] knows about it
-   What it's TOKEN is (used to authenticate the server when pushing a
    task)
-   What it's unique ID is (used to uniquely identify one agent from
    another).

## Task Management (Normal)

Use the (Normal) display of Task Management. This is used to list and
search the existing tasks in the Fusion Inventory system.

[[!img deploy/FusionTaskManagementNormalPage.png]]

1.  Clicking this link will bring you to this page.
2.  Clicking on the big "+", like in all of
    [[GLPI]], will create a new object in
    the area you are working - in this case, a new task.
3.  Clicking on a task name will allow you to edit existing tasks, check
    their status, start them, stop them, etc.

### Creating a deployment task

**NOTE**: You **must** have created the package you want to deploy
FIRST. Please read that section if you need help with that.

[[!img deploy/FusionInventoryTaskTest.png]]

1.  Give the task a name
2.  Select the communication type (push or pull). Traditionally we have
    used Pull.
3.  Set Advanced mode to Yes.

Then:

[[!img deploy/FusionInventoryNewAction.png]]

1.  Click on New Action
2.  Give the job a name (Optional)
3.  Select module to use - Package Deployment

Then:

[[!img deploy/FusionInventoryJobDetails.png]

1.  Click the plus sign next to definition, select a package, click add.
2.  Click the plus sign next to Action, select computers etc, then use
    find as you type to add in the selection to apply the task to. Click
    add.

#### Assigning Computers to a deployment task via Mass Action:

1.  Make sure you have created but not activated a task and a deployment
    package.
2.  Use "Target a task" as the Mass Action section
3.  Select the existing non-active task.
4.  Select the existing deployment package.
5.  Click Post. This will create a new job for that task.

### Running a Deployment Task

You can run a deployment task more than once, and it is separate from
creating one.

[[!img deploy/FusionInventoryTaskReady.png]]

1.  First, set the task to Active and click update.
2.  Then either force the task to start immediately with "Force Start"
    OR schedule the task start and click update.

### Checking a Tasks status

#### Running Jobs

When a job is running, you can see it by clicking on the FusionInventory
menu and selecting Running Jobs.

#### Task status on a PC

When a task is running on a PC it will update information about its
status. This log is saved after the task completes and can be reviewed
from the Task Job page.

[[!img deploy/FusionInventoryTaskStatusDetails.png]]

## Deploy Dropdown

This dropdown is used to create packages for deployment and to edit
them, list them and look at groups of computers (which are internal to
fusion inventory, there are also separate groups used by
[GLPI](/lepp/bin/view/Computing/GLPI) for display etc).
 
## Package Management

### Create a package

[[!img deploy/FusionPluginPackageManagementMain.png]]

1.  Use Add a Package to create a new package.
2.  Click on an existing package to edit that package.

### Edit package

You can add checks before running the package, currently I prefer to do
that with the deployed scripts.

[[!img deploy/FusionInventoryPackageCreation.png]]

1.  Select to upload a file. You can upload a number of files, but must
    upload one at a time. You can also elect to upload a zip file. I
    generally build packages to use 2 files so upload them separately,
    but this is not a rule.
2.  Select to get the file "From this computer". Use the browse button
    to select the file. Do **not** use P2P deployment.
3.  Click OK and the file will be uploaded.
4.  Click on "Add command", select "execute a command" then type in the
    command you want, I usually use the script name here, but if you're
    doing something else, any valid windows command (use full path
    names) can be used.
    -   You can optionally add return codes to validate against for
        success or failure.

-- [JamesPulver](/lepp/bin/view/Main/JamesPulver) - 2012-08-28

