# How to scan my network

## Agent configuration

The agent can use nmap, NetBios, and SNMP to scan its target network, according
to what is available for it. You have to check your installation for optional
dependencies.

The agent also requires access to the devices on its target network, using the
forementioned protocols. You have to check your network filtering rules, as
well as your access control rules on the devices.

Last, the netdiscovery task is not activated by default for agents. There is two
different way to enable it:

* Allow all: in menu _plugins_ > _FusionInventory_ > _Configuration_ and in tab _Agents modules_.
  You can check _Network discovery_ by default.
* Allow ony some agents: in menu _plugins_ > _FusionInventory_ > _FusionInventory_ > _Agents management_
  go in agent form and in tab _Agents modules_, check _Network discovery_.

### number of threads

To have network discovery running more faster, you can define number of simultaneous IP queries. For
exemple, if you use 10 threads, agent will query 10 IP is same time, and so it's very more faster.

You have 2 choices:

* General configuration: You can define it for all agents, in menu _plugins_ > _FusionInventory_ > _Configuration_ and in tab _FusionInventory SNMP_. define value _Threads number (network discovery)_. 
* Personalized configuration: you can overwrite general configuration for an agent (for exemple if the computer is better faster), in menu _plugins_ > _FusionInventory_ > _FusionInventory_ > _Agents management_ go in agent form and in tab _Threads number_, and define value _Threads number (network discovery)_.

## Network range

you need to register your network ranges in the “IP range configuration” configuration. You can associate a
network to an entity, in this case, the devices found on this network will be created in the given entity.

## Task creation

Now your agent is ready and the Network has been registered, you can create your first task. Go in _Task management (Normal)_ menu and create a new entry.

Please see the [[task creation|documentation/fi4g/tasks]] page.

