[[!meta  date="2013-02-20"]]

Hello all,

Following a meeting between the agent developers, the release process of the
agent has changed a bit. We will follow a Linux like development process:

## development process branches

"master" will be the stable branch with some validated new feature. New feature will
be prepared in "\<branch\>+\<feature\>" branch (e.g.
master+add_coffee_maker_inventory) where :

- \<branch\> is the base branch on which this feature is developped.
- \<feature\> is a small title describing quickly the feature (with a ticket
number for reference if possible)

[[!template  id=warning text="""
The branch name should contains only alphanumeric. Use underscore character to
space out words in the name.
"""]]

This branch will be merged as soon as the feature is validated by the team.

For example, I want a new feature:

1. The developer create a branch called master+feature@name
2. The developer adds the feature and refresh the test-suite
3. The new feature branch is checked out in master+feature and validated by the
team
4. The branch get merged in the master branch

The "master" branch will be released regulary and has to be in a stable state.

Bug fix branch will be created when needed, (e.g, 2.3.x) to prepare fix-only releases.
For example, 2.3.x will be created the day we need to release a 2.3.1 release to fix
2.3.0.

## branches renamed

* "2.3.x" is now "master"
* "master" is now "master+restjson"
* "2.3.x+foo" are now "master+foo"

Some old branches have been renamed with a new "attic/" prefix.

## Agent::Task merge

Agent::Task::Network, Agent::Task::ESX and Agent::Task::Deploy will be merged within the Agent
repository. The associated projects on the forge will be merged too.

## 2.3.0 release

The 2.3.0 release is mostly ready. We have to work on the Windows installer to finish what
Tomás Abad started some weeks ago.

