---
layout: post
title: FusionInventory Agent 2.5.1
categories: news
lang: en
---

The FusionInventory Agent maintainers are proud to announce the 2.5.1 release.

You can download sources or dedicated installer from the [fusioninventory-agent github releases](https://github.com/fusioninventory/fusioninventory-agent/releases/tag/2.5.1):

<button class="button-save large" onclick="window.location.href='https://github.com/fusioninventory/fusioninventory-agent/releases/tag/2.5.1'">Download FusionInventory Agent v2.5.1 from Github Releases</button>

Or see [download instructions](https://documentation.fusioninventory.org/%20FusionInventory_agent/%20%20%20Installation/windows/) for details.

Since last 2.5 release, many bug fixes and enhancements have been accumulated, such as:

For the core:
- Few fixes has been addressed for the new HTTPD daemon plugins support
- As promised in [FusionInventory Agent 2.5 release news]({{ site.baseurl }}/2019/04/12/fusioninventory-agent-2.5.html)
  a Proxy plugin is included in this release.
  By default, the plugin is not enabled. See the `proxy-server-plugin.cfg` to enable it.
  You can even enable the SSL plugin at the same time to enable proxy other SSL.
  If required, you can also enable the SecondaryProxy so you can support a second proxy mode (HTTP & HTTPS at the same time for example).
  See `proxy2-server-plugin.cfg` to enable it.
- On win32 service, the http daemon was no more responding while running a task. This is fixed.

For the Inventory task:
- some fixes has been included for linux and win32:
 - on linux, megacli parsing has been fixed to enhance some RAID storage inventory
 - a failure while handling LG TV monitor has been addressed
 - on win32, VirtualBox and VPN network adapters are now set virtual
 - we added Samsung S24E450 monitor serial support
 - on debian/ubuntu, uninstalled packages was still inventoried as software if not purged
 - on win32, since windows 1903, the antivirus inventory could take a very long time if another antivirus than Windows Defender is enabled
 - on win32, we added Symantec/Norton antivirus support
 - on win32, logged users should be deduplicated not being case sensitive
- pci & usb included databases has been updated

For the NetDiscovery/NetInventory tasks:
- we added Hygon Dhyana Support
- the multi-threading of netdiscovery and netinventory tasks has been refactored. This fixes netinventory task multi-threading and enhances the netdiscovery one while scanning many ip ranges.
- We added 2 new options to `fusioninventory-netdiscovery` script so you can now directly start netinventory task and save devices inventory as XML.
  Use `--inventory` to enable direct inventory when we detect SNMP support and use `--save` option to specify an existing folder where to save XMLs.
- few more devices are fully detected with the updated [sysobject.ids](https://github.com/fusioninventory/sysobject.ids/tree/fia-2.5.1)

For the ESX task:
- since VMware ESXi 6.5, Patch Release ESXi650-201811002 (build-10884925) and in latest VMware ESXi 6.7, new tags are available to detect server serial and enclosure serial. The ESX tasks now support them.
  You are encouraged to upgrade your ESX as this really helps to import the server in GLPI inventory.
- `fusioninventory-esx` script now support `--dump` option `--dumpfile` to help debugging ESX support. Don't hesitate to join the dump generated by `--dump` option when submitting an ESX issue.

Check the [Changes file](https://github.com/fusioninventory/fusioninventory-agent/blob/2.5.1/Changes) for more details.

As a reminder, we want to tell you again the support for some old operating systems is discontinued since 2.4. The agent may continue to work on these platforms but we won't handle issues reported for them:
- Windows XP/NT/2000
- Mac OSX < 10.8 (Mountain Lion)
- Solaris 8

As another reminder, Windows agent installers are built from the [fusioninventory-agent-windows-installer github repository](https://github.com/fusioninventory/fusioninventory-agent-windows-installer).

The Team also reminds you that a [Userecho suggestion site](http://fusioninventory.userecho.com/) is available where you can submit your ideas or whishes for the future of FusionInventory agent and/or plugin for GLPI.

Don't hesitate to participate by putting your ideas or even just voting for others one !

As usual many thanks to all our community, users and contributors!
