# FAQ

[[!toc  levels=2]]

## Tasks are not enabled

    Task NetInventory is not enabled
    Task NetDiscovery is not enabled

These messages show up in the agent log when the server do not ask for an Network
Discovery or a Network Inventory.

## How to redirect OCS agent with Apache

You can use an [alias](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/mod_alias.html) directive to
redirect traffic from /ocsinventory to FusionInventory.

    Alias /ocsinventory "/var/www/html/glpi/plugins/fusioninventory/front/communication.php"

Take care to declare this directive before an `Alias / XXX` or it will be ignored.

For example:

    Alias /ocsinventory "/var/www/html/glpi/plugins/fusioninventory/front/communication.php"
    Alias / /var/www/html/glpi/
    
    <Directory /var/www/html/glpi>
        Options None
        AllowOverride Limit Options FileInfo
    
        php_value memory_limit 256M
    
        Order Deny,Allow
        Allow from all
    </Directory>

It's also possible to use a regular expression for that.

## I get *Unable to find agent to run this job* message

You will get *Unable to find agent to run this job* message when the server can't find an agent
to run a task in push mode:

* Ensure an agent is running as service or daemon
* The server can contact http://$agentIP:62354 directly
* Check in http://glpi/plugins/fusioninventory/front/agent.php if the agent has *Network discovery*
  and *Network inventory (SNMP)* modules turned on

## On which platforms is the FusionInventory agent available?

The agent is available on Windows, MacOS X, Linux, FreeBSD, OpenBSD,
NetBSD, DragonFlyBSD, AIX, Solaris, HP-UX. The agent shares the same
codebase on all these platforms.

An agent for Android is also available on [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.fusioninventory).

## How can I configure two or more servers

 In the agent configuration file, you can define several servers to
communicate with.
For example to communicate with three servers: FusionInventory Server
for GLPI 0.80 and 0.83, and OCSInventory server:

    server=http://glpi080/plugins/fusioninventory/front/plugin_fusioninventory.communication.php, http://glpi083/plugins/fusioninventory/, http://ocsinventory-ng/ocsinventory
The agent will contact each server in the order defined in the configuration
file, and perform the actions requested from each of them.

## Is FusionInventory agent compatible with OCS Inventory NG Server?

Yes, your server will need to be configured to accept the Fusioninventory UserAgent in the ocsinventory-server.conf

    #Path for external useragents reference file
    #!! WARNING !! : external agents may not be supported by OCS NG Community ! 
    #PerlSetEnv OCS_OPT_EXT_USERAGENTS_FILE_PATH /tmp/yourfile.txt

This step is not required with 1.x server.

Please note that FusionInventory-Agent doesn’t support OCS’s IP Discover
feature, and that OCS Deployment module is now deprecated and will not
be developped anymore.

If you’re looking for a software deployment solution, FusionInventory
provides it’s own, which is integrated into GLPI.

## My agent refuses to start a job with the "Bad token" error

“Bad token” problems means the agent and the server are not synchronized anymore. You can resolve the situation either:

* just by running an inventory
* by using `httpd-trust` parameter to allow request from the server IP.


[[!template  id=warning text="A bug fixed in 2.2.7 prevent the use of `rpc-trust-localhost` and `httpd-trust`."]]

## I get a duplicated computer, what appends?

With the default settings, FusionInventory for GLPI use the follow criteria to identify computer:

* MAC addresses
* serial number
* UUID

One of this information is probably duplicated.

## Can I use a mastering software like Ghost to deploy my agent

Yes you can as soon as to clean up the 'var' directory just before the master creation.

## How can I inventory my VMware Workstation virtual machines

VMware Workstation is only supported on Linux and MacOSX. You can will probably need
the _scan-homedirs_ parameter. This way, the agent will look for Virtual machine in user directories.
