Attendees
=========

-   Gonéri Le Bouder

-   David Durieux

-   Guillaume Rousse

-   Kevin Roy

Rest API : Communication Mayhem
===============================

Actually, the API is a place with 6 participants talking a different
language and communicating with the server in so different ways:

-   Deploy : complete communication steps but a little messy which
    require a lot of customized parsing.

-   ESX : one getJobs at the beginning and one setLog at the end

-   Collect : no setLog at all and a setAnswer which is not commonly
    used by the other modules.

Rest API : Definition of task, job
==================================

A task does not share the same meaning between the plugin and the agent.

A job does not seem to have the same definition across every modules.
Especially when it’s about unique id (UUID) of a Task(agent).

-   a deploy task has a unique id per jobs.

-   a netdiscovery task has one unique id and the jobs share those
    unique id.

It’s more a specification understanding issue on the server side but i’m
not sure the agent is affected too.

If we should migrate the others XML talking tasks, we first need to tidy
up the basic way every modules should communicate with the server.

FusionInventory Plugin : Continuous Integration
===============================================

-   Plugin unit tests have been slightly rewritten to use a shared
    initialization class.

-   Travis is up now (with failures instead of initialization errors).

FusionInventory Server : Standard Inventory Server
==================================================

-   PythonEve (RestAPI for lazy people)

-   ElasticSearch (scalable nosql database)

-   Flask

Avahi/MDNS/ZeroConf
===================

Releases & Roadmaps
===================

-   FusionInventory Agent 2.4.x

-   FusionInventory GLPI Plugin 0.85+1.0

-   FusionInventory Server (if acknowledged)


